



/F
Little Blue Book No. <b>1089</b>
Edited by E. Haldeman-Julius


The Common
Sense of Sex

James Oppenheim


HALDEMAN-JULIUS COMPANY
GIRARD, KANSAS
F/




/F
Copyright, 1926
Haldeman-Julius Company


PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
F/




THE COMMON SENSE OF SEX


Perhaps one of the hardest lessons this generation
has had to learn is that sex is a natural
thing. Christianity has had to admit, of
course, that sexuality is necessary if the race
is to go on, yet it has always frowned upon it.
The holy people didn't marry; the best people
became priests, monks or nuns. And so deep
has this puritanism gone that even a modern
like Bernard Shaw has said that he was
shocked at the conduct of married people--so
many of them indulged in love for mere
pleasure!

A wave of revolt has been sweeping over
the western world. We have had poets like
Walt Whitman who have celebrated sex as a
clean, strong thing; writers like Havelock Ellis
who have gathered together a mine of information
on the subject; and finally, we have had
the great psychologist, Freud, who has made a
scientific study of sex and given us a flood of
new light on its mysteries.

In spite of this new knowledge, however,
most people are apparently still in ignorance.
The subject is hedged around with fears and
taboos. Shame attaches to many phases of it.
There are men and women of strong desires
who think they are living in sin; and, on the
other hand, those without desire who think
they are unnatural. It is time for this dark
cloud to roll away; and this booklet is simply
one more attempt to place the matter not only
in the light of science, but also in the light
of common sense.


ABNORMAL SEXUALITY

According to Freud, sexuality begins as
something vague, distributed all over the child's
body, and gradually concentrating in the sexual organs.
The first vague sexual act is suckling.
The child not only experiences the pleasure of food,
but also of an act that has rhythm
in it, the rhythm of the mouth working with
the nipple. It soon discovers that it can produce
this rhythm by itself. It works its thumb
into its mouth and sucks it. Here begins a
pleasure, separated from the food-pleasure,
which is dependent on rhythm, and includes
the mouth and hand.

The hand, having learned this trick, now
begins to rub various parts of the body in a
rhythmical manner. In a vague sort of way
auto-erotism sets in.

Along with this comes a growing interest in
its own body, and a love of displaying it; the
stage of exhibitionism. And naturally this
leads to curiosity about other bodies, especially
bodies like its own.

But, finally, interest is aroused in the opposite
sex, and with the awakening of genuine
sexual desire in puberty, the child is prepared
to step over to normal sexuality.

According to this, every child who develops
steadily will finally come to normal sexuality.
Yet it is obvious that the world is full of people
who have sexual trouble. There are men
suffering from partial or complete impotence;
there are women with whom desire centers
upon the lips; there are others terrified at
the sexual act; there are homosexuals, and
those who cannot break the auto-erotic habit.
Finally, there are those whose only pleasure
consists in cruelty to others, or having cruelty
practiced upon themselves--the sadists and the
masochists.

These troubles, according to Freud, can be
traced back to the child's original love-attachment
to the mother or father. It is the Oedipus
complex, named after the Greek king who innocently
and unknowingly married his own
mother, had children by her, and when the
truth was revealed to him, put out his own
eyes and wandered homeless about the land.
This is the crime of incest, tabooed almost universally
by every race.

In other words, Freud thinks it natural that
the child's first love should have a sexual coloring;
that the boy desires the mother, and
the girl the father; but that the deep taboo,
felt by the child though not understood by him,
produces a fear that drives him finally to take
some substitute for the mother, another woman
(how often men seek women who are like their
mothers!), or may make it impossible for him
ever to have normal sexuality.

In other words, the child, in fear of going
any further toward the goal of his love, the
mother, may become fixed at some point of
childish expression: one boy may never go
further than auto-erotism; another may remain
all his life at the homosexual phase. In this
way the perversions are accounted for; they
are infantile expressions, due to fear.

The cure, according to Freud, is two-fold:
the patient must come to understand that the
cause of the trouble is his love for the parent,
and that this love must be sacrificed, and the
attachment broken, in order that the desire
for normal sexuality may be cultivated.

The other solution is <i>sublimation</i>. That is to
say, express your abnormal desire, but on a
higher level and in a different form. In fact,
Freud traces many of the glories of our civilization
to this technic, employed unconsciously
as a rule. For instance, a man may be a sadist;
his desire is to cut other people with a knife.
Let him, then, become a surgeon, and cut people
creatively instead of destructively.

Another man is an exhibitionist. He wants
to display himself publicly. Let him become
an actor.

A third has intense curiosity; he would, if
he expressed this desire unsublimated, become
a Peeping Tom. Let him become a scientist,
intent on looking into the unknown.

Against this viewpoint of Freud's, Dr. Jung,
the psychologist of Zurich, brings a barrage of
criticism. He says, first, that while these expressions
of the child have every appearance
of sexuality, they cannot be sexual, because as
a rule true sexuality does not awaken in a
child until puberty. And he says, second, that
the desire for incest is relatively rare: since,
naturally, when it comes to sexuality, a man
desires a young woman and not an old.

While these criticisms seem to me well-founded,
great credit must nevertheless go to
Freud for having shown us that these sexual
manifestations are not necessarily rooted in
innate depravity and sinfulness, but appear as
natural expressions in the development of everyone.
For while it is true that not many children
have sexual feeling before puberty, on
the other hand in the cases of men and women
who practice perversions it is usually found
that the habit originated in childhood, and was
not broken when puberty dawned.

I will reserve the treatment of the abnormal
for a later chapter.


THE THIRD SEX

Edward Carpenter of England has advanced
the theory that there is a third sex, which is
hermaphroditic, or bi-sexual. He would place
this sex as midway between man and woman
and having some of the same characteristics of
both. This does not mean that the third sex
is physically hermaphroditic. While such people exist,
they are relatively rare. It merely
means men who have much of the woman in
them, and women who have much of the masculine.
However, often this shows in some
physical characteristic, as an effeminate voice
in a man, a growth of hair on a woman's chin,
a manner of walking, etc.

Edward Carpenter believes that this third sex
was the one which, because it could not follow
the beaten path, gave birth to philosophy, religion,
art, law and invention. As he pictures
it, in the savage tribe there would be a man
who felt himself so different from the rest of
the men and so much more akin to the women,
that he would evade in every manner joining
in the masculine occupations of hunting and
fighting. He would stay home with the women
and justify this by becoming the shaman or
medicine-man, the first doctor and mystic. Thus
he would have time for brooding, and in this
way cultivate his imagination, and bring forth
new theory and new arts.

That there is some basis for this theory is
obvious. The founders of religion are usually
pictured as more or less hermaphroditic in nature.
Jesus, for instance, is shown as not only
aggressive, courageous and self-assertive in the
true masculine way, but also as gentle, loving,
forgiving, merciful or feminine. He speaks of
himself as the hen who would have gathered
its brood under its protecting wings; and he
tells his disciples to eat of his body in the
form of the bread. (It is the mother who gives
her body to her child to eat.)

We find, too, this hermaphroditic quality in
some of the great artists and poets. Walt
Whitman, our American poet, is a good example.
He was powerfully built, robust, healthy
and overflowing with vitality, so masculine
that it is related that Lincoln said of him,
"There goes a man"; yet he was as tender as a
woman. He nursed personally thousands of
soldiers in the Civil War, and their feeling
was that he gave them a kind of mother love.

But there have been other great men, not
artists or religious leaders, who were similar.
Lincoln, for instance, had the brooding tenderness
and the deep sympathy which we associate
with the mother.

However, the implication in Carpenter's theory
is that it isn't just a matter of mental
qualities, but also sexual; that the third sex
has some of the sexual feeling and need of
both sexes, and that this is an explanation of
the cause of homosexuality.

The facts, however, are against the Carpenter
theory. One finds, in practice, that there are
homosexual men aggressively masculine, and
with hardly a trace of the feminine about them;
and, on the other hand, more or less effeminate
men whose sexuality is absolutely normal.

Moreover, there is a deeper explanation for
the man who couldn't go out and fight and
hunt with the other men, and for the woman
who hated the agricultural and house duties
of other women. According to Jung, there are
two great types, the extraverted and the introverted.

These types appear, he believes, as differentiations
of the two basic and primary instincts,
that of self-preservation and that of race-propagation,
or, in other words, the ego-instinct
and the sexual. We are, evidently, born into
the one type or the other, just as we are born
into the one sex or the other.

The sexual instinct, unconsciously, of course,
leads toward the propagation of the species;
the urge of nature is for reproduction so that
the race can go on. And hence this instinct
leads to marriage, the establishment of the
family, and finally that of the tribe and nation.
And it leads too to all the activities connected
with these things. The men must fight to protect
their women and children or to bring them
more prosperity and power; they must hunt
to bring food. The women must bring up the
children, make and preserve the home, engage
in activities like cooking, spinning, weaving,
agriculture.

The sexual instinct leads them to activities,
to the general run of common life; and in its
higher development to the ideal of the brotherhood of man,
democracy, etc.

The ego-instinct leads to contrary things. It
is the opposite to the sexual instinct. Both
instincts are natural and exist in everyone:
for if it is natural to mate and to seek the good
of others, it is equally natural to defend and
develop oneself. However, the opposing types
arise, according to Jung, because we are born
with one instinct or the other predominant.

The ego-instinct makes one think of oneself.
And while this self-concentration appears first
as selfishness, as egotism, as setting oneself
above and against others; in its development it
leads further. It leads to withdrawing from
others, in order to brood, to study, to develop
the imagination. It leads to introverting, going
into oneself.

It was this type then that produced the first
shaman and medicine-man. For in order to give
birth to art, or philosophy, or discovery and
invention, one must seclude oneself from others,
and enter the world of the imagination. Naturally,
the introvert in the savage tribe felt
himself different from others. He was not concerned with
activity, with hunting, fighting,
mating, having children; he was concerned
with his own ideas and emotions, with the pictures
that loomed up in his mind and which
he felt compelled to scratch out on stone or
bone; with an unseen world which he saw as
one of gods and demons; with religion and invention.

The tribe doubtless thought him strange and
abnormal; but not necessarily effeminate. He
secured his place by the results he produced,
so that, in the common mind, he became linked
with the supernatural. In fact, up to very
recent years, the world held as more or less
sacred its religious leaders and artists, its doctors
and great students.

The introvert dreams the future which the
extravert lives. Our whole structure of civilization,
with its sciences, its arts, its inventions,
and even its manners and habits, was built up
by extraverts who made use of the great discoveries
of introverts.

It may be seen at a glance that the problem
of sexuality differs for the two types. If the
extraverted, or active, type is rooted in the
sexual-instinct, naturally it is the more sexual
type; whereas the introverted type, rooted in
the ego-instinct, is less so. However, we must
remember that the types are rarely pure; both
instincts exist in every one of us, only in the
extravert the one is accented, in the introvert,
the other.

But quite aside from the problem of type,
there is the problem of bi-sexuality. To Jung
this is a mental and emotional matter, rather
than a physical. In other words, just as in all
of us exist the ego and sexual instincts, just
so there exist in all of us the masculine and
feminine <i>principles</i>.

In the recent fight for Women's Rights, there
were those women who enlightened us by saying
that men and women are fundamentally
alike, that there must be a single standard of
morality or immorality, that women could do
the work of men, etc. On the other hand, the
so-called he-men of America are fond of affirming
that they are red-blooded and masculine
through and through. Neither of these statements
can bear much scrutiny.

According to Jung, the masculine and feminine
are not only opposing physical structures,
but opposing principles.

The masculine tendency is to <i>spend</i>, the
feminine to <i>retain</i>. This may be seen in the
sexual act itself.

Man, in his true nature, is the gambler, the
adventurer, the one who strays to new fields,
who fights, who is more or less reckless, and
who tends, therefore, toward the new and the
radical. Men have been our great pioneers
whether along extraverted or introverted lines,
whether in giving us great new ideas or arts,
or in exploration, tearing down and rebuilding,
leading peoples to new forms of government,
etc.

Woman, on the other hand, in her true nature
is cautious, wants to keep things as they
are, looks for safety. A woman who had been
radical in her youth told a friend of mine that
getting children made her a conservative. This
was natural. All the womanly qualities of patience,
love, loyalty and devotion are necessary
in bringing up children; and naturally she
wants that security and rock of changelessness
that her task may not be broken up. Woman
tends, therefore, to be the conservative. While
man rushes out to grasp the new, she safeguards
the heritage of the past.

It is not curious, therefore, that just a few
days before the general strike broke out in
England, one of the most radical acts that
nation has known, there was a great parade of
women of every rank protesting against strikes--or,
in other words, a demand that the vast
problem be worked out along conservative and
safe lines.

However, while these two principles of the
masculine and feminine are mutually opposed,
we find on close study that they co-exist in
each one of us. It would seem as if each human
being had in him the whole of human
nature, and that whole is not only the qualities
of aggression, of self-assertion, of recklessness
and courage, but also the qualities of tenderness,
devotion, patience, etc. Put differently,
while the bodies of man and woman differ
from each other sexually, they are fundamentally
the same body; so, too, while a man is
more masculine than a woman, and she more
feminine than a man, each has, though in less
degree, the traits of the other.

This is one explanation of how men and
women attract each other. A man who was,
say, sixty percent masculine and forty feminine,
would be apt to be attracted by his opposite,
a woman sixty percent feminine and
forty masculine. A man extremely feminine
would seek a woman extremely masculine, and
so on. And obviously enough, the percentage
of either principle in a man or woman would
have some effect on the sexuality. A more
feminine man would lack aggressiveness and
assertiveness, and be more passive; a more
masculine woman would want to take the upper
hand.

With this understanding of the mixed natures
of man and woman we may better comprehend
the art of love.


THE ART OF LOVE

Havelock Ellis, the great English student of
sexuality, and a pioneer in that field, coined the
phrase.

The sexual act, he maintains, is not a simple
matter; it is part of an art, the art of love-*making.
This is based on the fact that, normally,
the woman is more slow than the man
to respond to sexual stimulus, and must be
aroused. The man is swift, ready and active;
the woman slow, unresponsive and passive. In
order to bring her full response, there must be
an interval of wooing. And it is this, from
Havelock Ellis's point of view, which makes
sexuality a beautiful and a human thing, raising
the act, in his mind, to something almost
sacramental, something in which the poetry
and mystery of existence participate.

While sexuality in its origin was merely an
instinct aiming at generation and reproduction,
like every other instinct it has been turned
into an art by man and become a rich part of
his life. Eating, too, is an instinctive performance;
yet very few find satisfaction in eating
alone and in a plain way. Man, at his best,
has raised eating to a joyous affair, where
people not only share the food, but share each
other's society. Even the food itself may be
prepared and served in an artistic manner and
in pleasant surroundings.

So, too, sexuality, according to Havelock Ellis,
has become an end in itself: the joyous union
of man and woman in the mystery of love. For
instance, he says, in India the art is well
known, and the act often prolonged for hours.
The West he finds backward in both the knowledge
and the practice of this art.

The sexual act he divides into two parts:
the forepleasure and the act itself. The forepleasure
is the preparation and wooing. It
summarizes, according to him, all those so-called
childish things which taken separately
are called perversions. As we have seen, the
child goes through every phase: sucking, rubbing,
looking, exhibiting, caressing, etc., and in
various ways. These, according to Ellis's
studies, are found in the sexual act wherever it
is practiced as an art. And he finds them natural
and good insofar as they contribute toward
the complete arousal of the woman and the
final act itself.

They become perversions only, he says, where
they are ends in themselves. A man, for instance,
who cares mainly for expression of the
mouth has a perverted sexuality; but if this is
merely a step toward complete sexuality, it is
part of the natural process and enhances the
act.

In short, in the sexual act as an art the
man and woman relive their whole development
from the stage of suckling to the act itself.

Havelock Ellis also maintains that the positions
assumed by the man and woman need not
be the so-called normal, but any that is found
satisfactory. In fact, he believes that a sense
of equality between the sexes may be cultivated
by the man assuming what is usually the
woman's position.

However, there are those who do not accept
completely some of these contentions. Recently,
a well-known New York psychologist said
before a large audience that he and his colleagues
in investigating a large number of
cases, found a surprising proportion of sensitive
people who had no interest in the sexual
act itself, but only in certain phases of the fore-*pleasure.
These people were, he said, found to
be normal in every other way, and he advocated
lifting off the stigma of shame which
still attaches to such acts.

What Jung says in this connection is that it
isn't the <i>form</i> of the sexuality that matters, but
rather the attitude we have toward the sexual.
And, if we bear in mind the mixed nature of
men and women, that some men are more
feminine, for instance, and some women more
masculine, it will readily be understood that
sexuality means different things to different
people. With some the forepleasure is negligible,
with others it is the chief thing. Some
women are like men, swift and immediate;
some men like women, slow and passive. It
remains in each case for those concerned to
find their own way.


SEXUALITY AND THE FOUR FUNCTIONS

But if sexuality means one thing to the
introvert, and another to the extravert, if also
it means one thing to man and another to
woman, there are still other sharply marked
differences of meaning, which lead one to believe
that in the matter of sexuality no one has
a right to lay down a general morality, a general
rule of conduct. If it is wrong for a so-called
pure person to rule that all other persons
must be pure, it is equally wrong for those
to whom sexuality is necessary to rule that
everyone must have sexual expression.

Before, however, going further in these differences
of meaning, let us look more closely
at the difference between introvert and extravert
in reaction to sexuality.

If the extraverted attitude springs from the
sexual instinct, it is natural that in the average
extravert, who has not, due to bad teaching,
distorted his nature, the sexual development
has been normal and reached a more or
less strong maturity. But with the introvert
it is different. Since the introverted attitude
arises from the ego-instinct, the development is
more along the lines of thought, idea, philosophy
art, etc., and the sexual as a rule remains
undeveloped. If it is undeveloped, it is, in
fact, childish.

In other words, what Freud explains as fixations,
due to attachment to the parent, Jung
explains as simply that side of the nature
which is still undeveloped. Introverts who in
many ways are highly developed, may, at the
same time, remain children when it comes to
sexuality.

The question then arises: Is it better to
suppress the sexuality of the introvert altogether,
since the only kind he is capable of
has an air of perverseness about it, is perhaps
autoerotic, or concentrated on the forepleasure,
or wrong in some other way? Certainly you
can't demand of a child what you demand of
an adult; and neither can you demand of an
undeveloped function what you demand of one
fully matured.

On the other hand the repression of the sexual
instinct may be a dangerous thing, in
this connection the dream of an introvert is
illuminating. He was a man highly developed
along mental lines, a man, in fact, of some
prominence; but he experienced great difficulty
in his sexuality. It was characterized as
over-impulsive and more or less passive. He
wanted to play a more or less feminine part
toward the women.

Because of his high integrity he felt that
this was wrong, and so attempted to suppress
his sexuality altogether. Then he developed
symptoms; strange feelings in his head, a sense
of weakness in his legs. He had the following
dream:

He and his wife were at Coney Island, going
about with three people of a cruder type. Two
of these were men, and one a woman. The
woman fainted on the street, and no one knew
what to do for her. A man then rushed out of
the building, took hold of her, and began an
infantile stimulation. She revived at once.

The dream is easily understood. He and his
wife stood for the higher side of himself, the
developed or introverted side; the three low-brows
and rough-necks were the undeveloped
side. Coney Island suggests some attempt at
expressing the lower and undeveloped side.
Since this undeveloped side was the extraverted,
or sexual, the two men and the woman
represented this side; and the woman suggests
that part of his sexuality which is more or less
feminine and passive.

She faints. That is, he develops the symptoms.
The man who rushes out to help he
connected with an uncle of his who was noted
for his common sense. In other words, his
common sense tells him: Cure her by any
means possible. See, if I do this for her, she
revives. Better that than to be sick, to develop
symptoms.

No code of morality could have helped this
man. He had as an introvert to realize and
accept the fact that his sexuality was still childish,
and to realize also that he had to begin
with it at the point where it actually was if
he ever wanted to develop it to something
higher and better.

I do not mean to imply here that all introverts
are so infantile in their sexuality. There
are those introverts who began early to develop
this side also, and have reached a fair
maturity. However, it is more often the other
way round.

But if there is this distinction to be made,
there are yet others to show how individual
a matter sexuality may be.

For while we have the two main types of introvert
and extravert based on the two major
instincts, we have also the four types based on
the functions. In other words, a man may not
only be an extravert or introvert, but also a
thinking type, a feeling type, an intuitive type
or a sensational type.

According to Jung, these four functions of
<i>thinking</i>, <i>feeling</i>, <i>intuition</i> and <i>sensation</i> constitute
the make-up of the psyche; and each of
us tends to accent one of them at the expense
of the others.

The <i>thinking type</i> is one of the most easily
discernible. He takes thought, he thinks things
out; he thinks before he acts. He is apt to
be logical, deliberate, fairly sure of himself,
even dogmatic. He usually lives by a system
of thought he has worked out, and which he
tries to force upon others. He has strong opinions,
because he has arrived at them by sure-footed
thinking. If he is extraverted he is the
good executive, the engineer, the lawyer; if
introverted, the philosopher and certain types
of scientist. The thinking type is found mostly
among men; in Jung's opinion thinking is a
masculine function.

The <i>feeling type</i> is usually found among
women; though there have been men, and great
ones, who were of this type: notably Goethe,
Wagner and Walt Whitman. The feeling type,
normally, is not good at thinking, is, in fact,
opposed to thinking, since thinking a thing
out is the opposite of feeling it out. Feeling,
itself, is a reaction of <i>like</i> and <i>dislike</i> and is
a delicate adjustment to the <i>fitness of things</i>.
The values of the extraverted feeling woman
are almost purely external. In choosing a husband
she aims rather at the correct thing than
at the deeper qualities. The man who has
wealth, position, and who dresses according to
the style, who has good company manners and
is worldly is apt to appeal to her. Her feelings
are appeased by him; she isn't "jarred" or
made to feel his unfitness for the world she
lives in. She "likes" him. Her opinions on
things are according to the styles of the moment.
She desires everything to move along
harmoniously, without any unpleasantness.
She is not deep, but she keeps society afloat
by her ease and attempt to bring everything
into harmony.

The <i>introverted feeling woman</i> is one of the
silent women. Her feelings form into long
moods, which persist sometimes for days. She
suffers quietly and cannot express herself. She
has no language for these moods.

Feeling, by the way, must not be confused
with <i>emotion</i>. Emotion, as Jung points out, is
a <i>feeling-sensation</i>; that is, it is at the same
time both mental and physical; something instinctive,
which we share with the animals.
An emotion of joy, for instance, not only is
perceived mentally, a state of happiness, but
also is felt physically: the pulse goes faster,
the cheeks become flushed, etc. But feeling
is something separated more or less from sensation
and developed into an independent function.

The developed feeling person feels her likes
and dislikes, or her moods, as something mental,
which no more affect the body than developed
thinking in the thinking type. Thinking,
as we know, can be very cool and detached
where it is pure and mature.

Thinking and feeling then are developed and
consciously controlled functions; where, on the
other hand, <i>intuition</i> and <i>sensation</i> are inborn
and uncontrollable by consciousness.

The <i>intuitive type</i>, works by those instantaneous
flashes of insight which we call intuitions.
These may be in the nature of hunches,
or in the nature of an ability to see the hidden
character of others; or it may have to do with
far off things. Intuitives sometimes know
events happening at a distance; as the sickness
of a relative, or something even more
startling. Though Goethe was a feeling type,
he was also very intuitive. One summer night
he called his man-servant into his room. The
weather was sultry, brooding and ominous.
Goethe said: "At this moment there is an
earthquake taking place far off." Some weeks
later came the news of the great Lisbon earthquake.
He had known it to the minute. An
intuitive I know was in Virginia when he
dreamed vividly that his brother in Texas had
been killed by a Negro and that a messenger
had come with a telegram bidding his return
to Texas. The next morning the messenger
came. It is by intuition that the painter sees
the soul of the sitter, and reveals the hidden
nature in his picture.

The intuitive type is the noble, or what has
been called, the spiritual type. Just as the two
conscious functions of <i>thinking</i> and <i>feeling</i> are
in opposition to each other, so the two unconscious
functions of <i>intuition</i> and <i>sensation</i> are
in opposition; for intuition is the least earthy
function, sensation (the senses, sexuality) the
most earthy or animal.

The intuitive, because he sees into the core
of things, sees better than anyone else the possibility
of things. He can see the man in the
child; the growth of a new movement in politics
or science or labor or business; the development
of new ideas and their importance
for the human race. If such a man is extraverted,
he hurls himself into new tendencies,
and then as soon as they are about to come
to harvest, he is no longer interested, and turns
to new possibilities. He is the pioneer who
opens up the wilderness, but does not stay to
enjoy the cities that spring up. He sows, but
he rarely reaps.

If he is introverted he brings forth out of
himself great new ideas or works of art. A
good example is Nietzsche.

The <i>sensational type</i> is of the earth, earthy.
His main function is sensation; the taste, the
scent, the sound, the touch and the look of
things. He is highly sensuous, and is constantly
seeking new sensations. He is very
realistic, and opposed to anything noble or
idealistic. He is often the actor, the acrobat,
the sensualist.

If he is introverted he gets his sensations
through imagining strange pictures of an inverted
world, such as the world depicted in the
prose and poetry of Edgar Allan Poe.

This is, of course, not a complete setting forth
of the types; but merely enough to come to
some understanding of their differing sexual
reactions.

If a man or woman is an extraverted thinking
or feeling type, the sexuality is apt to be
normal. It is apt to be governed by what the
world considers good form. That is to say,
it is probably monogamous, done at regular
intervals, and often without glamor.

But when we come to the intuitives and the
sensationals, everything is quite otherwise. The
intuitive is usually in strong opposition to the
sensational. To him sexuality is apt to appear
as something low, animal and disgusting. He
himself is often without desire, and cannot
understand the need of it in others.

It is true that sometimes an individual by
deep development transcends the groove of his
type, and in this way some intuitives are able
finally to develop their sexuality; but, on the
contrary, it is sometimes dangerous doctrine
to ask an intuitive to be sexual. Intuitives
who do this often violate their natures, and so
produce symptoms or become ill. They are apt
to oscillate between periods of intuition and
that of sensation, and when they are on the
sensational side they are tempted to make an
orgy of it. Sensitive intuitive artists get
drunk and go on debauches: women of this
type behave somewhat like prostitutes.

The Freudians err therefore in their doctrine
that sexuality is good for everyone. It is not
good for certain of the intuitives. In fact,
many men and women of this type live on in
the full bloom of their power without knowing
a sexual life.

On the other hand, since sexuality permeates
the life of the senses and is all bound up with
them, the sensational usually needs and has a
full sexual life. The men are apt to be Casanovas
and flit from woman to woman. Sensations,
as we know, if repeated, soon tire us.
We long for new ones. So in a life that depends
on sensations and sensational happenings,
soon an appetite develops for something
still more strange, more unexpected, more flavorous.
Ordinary sexuality may, to the sensational,
soon lose its zest, and he hungers for
things abnormal and unheard of. In this way,
he may develop from one stage to another of
the perversions, not because of a fixation on
the mother, or even, in his case, because of an
undeveloped function (since sensation is his
developed function), but merely because sensation
itself demands more and different sensations,
and the ordinary round is soon exhausted.

It is said of the sensational that if he can't
get a good sensation, he will get a bad one;
if he can't get one of pleasure, he will take one
of pain. It is like the poet Keats putting
pepper in his mouth so that the wine would
taste the cooler.

There is not much to say about it. In every
civilized country certain classes of people are
looked upon as outside the general code, as in
a class apart. Thus we have the conceptions
of Bohemia, of Red Light districts, and we
even exempt from the usual censure certain
types of actors and actresses in a recognition
that what we call morality means little to
them.

What stands out clearly in noting these differences
of reaction, is that no one type should
legislate the morality of the other types. If it
is perfectly clear to anyone that a code erected
by the extraverted sensational type would be
ruinous to the rest of the population, it should
also be clear by inference that the thinking type
can't legislate for the sensational, nor the
extravert for the introvert.

What we come down to finally is that sexuality,
like religion, is an individual matter,
and must be found by the individual according
to his needs and his nature.


MISPLACED ENERGY

However, it should not be taken for granted
that perverse sexuality is, in itself, good. Nothing
that is raw and undeveloped is as good as
that which is strong and mature. On the other
hand, a seed cannot by magic suddenly become
a beautiful flower. It must pass through the
dark stage of being in the muck and manure,
and only painfully and slowly, step by step,
will it develop to the flower. This appears to
be a law of nature, and we can say of the
development of man, that his evolution began
in the "mud and slime of things," and that in
the myriad ages that have passed, he has not
yet attained full manhood.

When we look at some of the dark things
that the race has gone through, we cannot call
them "good," but often we must admit that
they were necessary. So, too, with this matter
of sexuality: it cannot always be arranged according
to what we think is best.

Nevertheless, there are many cases of what
might be called sick or false sexuality. It
would appear, according to Jung, that anyone
who neglects a function or gift which he
should be developing, is apt to go astray sexually.
In other words, our energy craves the
outlets provided for it by our innate character.
If a man, for instance, was born an artist, that
is not something he can escape. Art is the
natural outlet of much of his energy. But if,
because of his training, or say, his belief that
art is an idle matter and not manly enough, he
should turn from this gift, then a certain
amount of his energy goes idle.

Idle energy, so Jung has found, usually descends
to the sexual zone; and the young man
finds himself with an unnatural and excessive
sexual craving. Since this is more than the
normal sexual desire, it is apt to take abnormal
form; and the man becomes by an irresistible
compulsion, a homosexual.

His homosexuality is not an innate thing; it
is a <i>symptom</i>. It is <i>misplaced energy</i>. The
cure, of course, is for him to take up his art.
His sexuality then will become quite normal.

There is the case of the young woman who
not only had an incessant and excessive sexual
craving, but who desired any and every man
she met. It took all her strength to hide her
feelings, for she was well-bred, sensitive, and
with a high standard. She went to a noted
analyst who discovered that she was the rare
case of a woman who belonged to the thinking
type. But thinking in her circle was not favored
when it came to women. She had therefore
neglected to develop her intellect, and as
soon as she began to do so, the symptom disappeared
and she became quite normal.

It should be clear from these cases that
wherever perverse sexuality appears, there is
need of an investigation. It is necessary to
discover if it isn't a case of misplaced energy.
Indeed, one may say offhand, that all <i>excessive</i>
cases are of this nature, as for instance, a
marked sadism (sexual cruelty), a marked
homosexuality, a too great sexual desire. Such
cases need the treatment of a psycho-analyst.

However, if energy may be misplaced <i>to</i> the
sexual zone, it may also be misplaced <i>from</i> the
sexual zone. This is particularly true in this
country, because of our Puritan tradition. It
was no longer ago than my own childhood that
a vast array of American children were taught
that sex is a bad thing; that to think in sexual
terms was evil, that to commit sexual acts was
wicked; and that sexuality existed solely for
the purpose of propagating the species. It was
whispered about that auto-erotism led to insanity
or loss of manhood. Words like gonorrhea
and syphilis were not mentioned, and
ignorance in sexual matters was not only disastrous,
but, one might say, criminal. There
were women who came to marriage without
any inkling of how children were born; there
were boys who doubtless did go insane from
the practice of auto-eroticism, not because the
practice hurt them, but because of the shame
and fear attached to their "secret sin."

This darkness has not wholly vanished yet,
though much light has appeared. It is natural
that many sensitive people, growing up in
such an atmosphere, should <i>repress</i> their sexuality.
In certain cases this might do no
harm; an intuitive woman, for instance, might
be all the better for it. But since sexuality is
a powerful instinct which needs in the end its
own natural expression, the repression of it, in
many cases, would mean that sexual energy
was misplaced away from the sexual zone, and
produced a symptom.

Perhaps the simplest way of saying it is
this, that whatever we attempt to repress in
ourselves we tend to repress in others. If we
have cut off the glow of life in ourselves, we
come under a compulsion sometimes to cut off
others in the same way. This is where the misplaced
sexual energy goes. We become crusaders,
we go out and fight vice wherever it
shows its head, we censor art, we bring about
prohibition. We become persecutors, driven
by a kind of madness, thus poisoning our own
lives and the lives of others.

But since sexuality is a social instinct, and
is at the root of love, its repression may lead
to something equally fanatic, but of a different
nature. The crusading spirit, instead of being
prohibitive, calls the world to salvation. The
revivalist appears, or the bringer of a new
religion, or the founder of a sect. There is a
feverish attempt to convert and to "save the
world."

America is full of it. Great waves of sexualized
religious fervor sweep over the country.
Any means may be used: the revivalist may
use jazz bands and slang, do the Charleston
on his platform, paint primitive pictures of hell-*fire
and damnation, broadcast his violent sermons,
shame people into conversion, and
arouse a whole community to hysteria.

To anyone with a discerning eye, the performance
is false on the face of it. It is a lot
of misplaced sexual energy gone wrong and
running like a high fever.

A mild case of it which came under an
analyst's observation shows the trouble clearly
enough. The man in question felt that he had
a message to broadcast to the people, which
would bring them to a better life. The scheme,
however, was actually of a cheap nature,
which he admitted, on criticism, but could not
give up nevertheless. It was as if he had to
do it. The key-dream which showed the situation
was as follows:

An advertising man of his acquaintance had
set out to put up the highest advertising sign
in the world. This was being built on a prairie,
so that it could be seen from immense distances.
It was already so high that the
dreamer could not see the top of it. On rope-hung
scaffoldings many men were at work on
the sign. At the bottom of the sign was a
moat of water. Closing time came, and the
men immediately leaped from their scaffoldings
like frogs into the water below.

His scheme is shown up as not a real attempt
to help others, but as a matter of self
advertising, a stunt. More than this, the
energy which put up the sign, namely, the
men at work on it, leaps down like frogs.
Frogs, as a rule, have a sexual significance;
and sometimes mean auto-erotism.

In short, the energy behind his attempt to
save the world is misplaced sexuality, and that
sexuality of an infantile nature. His compulsion
left him when he gained the proper sexual
expression.

However, if repression of sexuality is a bad
thing, temporary abstinence is sometimes good.
Not only are men and women able, at times, to
go without sexuality for relatively long periods
but, in certain cases, and at certain times, this
has the highest value.

In many savage tribes, on the night before
the warriors went out to battle, the men were
not allowed to have any contact with women.
Doubtless this was done that their energy
might remain unimpaired, and that their war-*like
fervor might not be softened with any of
the feelings of love.

In fact, in times of crisis, it would appear
that there can be a displacement of sexual
energy which is beneficial. When men are
under the unusual strain of a great task, abstinence
often seems to help. Their whole energy
becomes transformed into the task, which they
can now do with greater freedom. Naturally,
this is a detour, a forced march, and not a
way of living.

We find often in the case of great artists,
that before beginning work on their masterpieces,
they withdraw from sexual experience.
Balzac, for instance, always cut himself off
from society, put on a monk's robe and secluded
himself until the task was accomplished.
It is obvious what the monk's robe meant: it
was a temporary renunciation of love as well
as of the world.


THE COMMON SENSE OF IT

We now come to the common sense of it.
Undoubtedly in a great number of cases of
perversion and other sexual trouble, we need
not search for the cause in a mother-attachment,
an incest-wish, or an undeveloped function.
The cause is often of a relatively simple
nature.

Perhaps at the top of the list we may put
woman's fear of being impregnated, of conceiving
and bearing a child; a fear which a man
who loves his wife often shares with her.
Such fears are sometimes morbid, and are part
of a general fear of life. Women who are
made, as it were, to be mothers, may be evading
their life-work and refusing pain and responsibility.
That is quite possible.

But, on the other hand, if we look at the
matter in the light of common sense, we see,
first, that to an imaginative person, the fear
is perfectly natural, just as a perfectly natural
fear may spring up in a man as he goes into
battle; and that, second, circumstances may
justify and deepen the fear to a point where
it becomes a deterrent to normal sexuality.
For instance, poverty might make it impossible
for the parents to support children, or more
than the one or two already born. Or the
woman's health or structure may be such as
to make child-bearing a grave danger.

Of course "birth control" is urged for such
people; the use of contraceptives. However,
not only are such things sometimes unreliable,
but certain types of people find their use exceedingly
unpleasant, turning what should be
a joyous union, a spontaneous act, into something
mechanical and self-conscious. Besides
that, if the fear of impregnation is great, the
use of contraceptives does not abolish it.

It is no wonder then that very many married
people turn from normal sexuality to something
that comes under the heading of perversions.
The whole aim is to get the glow and
satisfaction by any means rather than that of
normal entrance. Naturally, if either of the
couple concerned is strongly normal in his
sexual desire, there is a loss here; but whether
that loss is as great as the loss through worry
and fear, is open to question.

There is no use denying that when man
ceased to regard the sexual act as purely animal,
for propagation purposes, and made an
art of it, he turned aside from nature; just as
he has turned aside when he invented the
wheel or used fire for cooking. Those who
argue that nature's way is best should return
to the jungle. But if we agree that man may
refashion not only his environment but his
mind and his character, then we must admit
that he may also refashion his sexuality.

As Jung said, it isn't the <i>form</i> of the sexuality,
but the attitude we have toward the sexual.
If it is an expression of mutual love, an endearment
of life, an art, something that brings
a greater beauty to life, and riches otherwise
missing, surely it is both right and good.
And even if it is a necessary outlet for something
not so good, but which is undeveloped,
and needs development, at least it is a preventive
of sometimes serious disorder.

Certainly the ideal of Havelock Ellis is the
highest, that sexuality should be the art of
love, and that the forepleasure should culminate
in the act itself; and it is true also that
in many cases the fear of impregnation may be
conquered, and that the self-control of the man
may shield the woman. It is also true that
often the use of contraceptives may cease to
seem unnatural. But how legislate in the matter?
Prohibition does not prohibit; and there
is no way of making a couple, in the privacy
of their own lives, observe an external standard.
What is far better is to allow each couple
to find their own moral law with reference to
sexuality. If they know they are living up to
something good, they should be courageous
enough not to be ashamed of it

If the fear of impregnation is woman's chief
fear, that of man's is often the fear of impotence.
Many men, through lack of experience
sexually or for some other reason, have this
fear. This, too, may be morbid. It may originate
in the fear of life itself; an inability to
break through in the world; a feeling of failure, of
"not being a man." Or it may be due
to undeveloped sexuality. But if we look at
the matter sensibly we may see that often it
is not due to any such cause, but to something
more simple. For instance, it might be caused
by either of two opposite teachings: the one,
that sexuality in itself is a bad thing, the
other, the gossip of men, that a man isn't a
man unless he is sexually virile.

If a man believes the first, he must always
connect with sexuality something evil and low,
and if he is at all religious he may feel that
he is harming his soul, or even damning it,
if he has sexual pleasure. Such an inhibition
in itself would be enough to cripple his sexual
expression, for the very essence of sexuality,
like love, is that it casts out fear. The sexual
feeling in a man brings courage and aggressiveness.

On the other hand, if a man believes that he
is unmanly unless he is virile, and that other
men, if they knew of it, would think him a
eunuch or womanly, he might (and many do)
feel it incumbent upon himself to prove, over
and over again, that he is a man. But it is
foreign to the sexual act to use it to prove anything.
If it is not a joy, and a self-forgetfulness,
it is nothing. Hence, the man trying to
prove his case, is apt to turn out exactly as
he fears.

There must be a change of attitude. In
some men virility of character is combined
with sexual virility; in other men, it is not.
If we remember the distinction between extravert
and introvert, we may understand that
some men may be outwardly weak, but inwardly giants,
giants of intellect or of art; and
doubtless many of these men, by their virility
of thought or of creativeness, have made the
world itself more virile. It is said of Michelangelo
that he was not normal sexually, yet
his mighty torsos in marble, his colossal painting
of the Last Judgment could only have been
produced by a giant of character.

There is no single test for what constitutes
manhood. With some sexuality would play a
large part, with others not. What is important
is that a man be true to himself, and if his
sexuality is of an inferior or undeveloped order,
that he acknowledge it as such and so bring it
to a better development. He may then discover,
when he ceases to strain after lifting
himself by his bootstraps, that, with the disappearance
of fear, he is actually more sexually
powerful than he thought.

Another great cause for perversion or unsuccessful
sexuality, which is also perfectly
obvious, is mismating. Between sensitive people,
sexuality amounts to very little unless
the couple are also mates. A man may find that
his wife, however fond of her he may be, does
not stimulate that side of his nature; or the
woman may make the same discovery of her
husband. Without the natural means of attraction,
other means are sought for. Some employ
drink to stimulate them; others resort to
perversions.

There is also the case of a woman, brought
to an analyst's attention, who did not love her
husband, but was madly in love with another
man. If, in intercourse with her husband, she
thought of him as the other man and so pictured
him, the sexuality was successful.

However, this forcible mating of the mismated
is not often good; and indeed if the
physical antipathy is strong enough, it may not
even be possible. In such cases, often enough,
another of the simple, but great problems,
comes up. It is that either of divorce or of
polygamy.

Is man naturally polygamous? That is a question
hard to answer. I rather think that the
introvert is more monogamous, the extravert
more polygamous. The introvert tends to go
deep with everything; to concentrate more and
more on a few things; and he is the same in
his relationships. They tend to be few, but
to be rather intense. When it comes to marriage,
this concentration is apt to exclude every
woman but his wife.

With the extravert it is different. Since his
attention goes out from himself to the world,
since his interest is easily aroused, his relationships
are apt to multiply. They are not
often deep, but they are swift and easy, and
without great trouble he can pass, if he is
sexual, from one woman to another.

Now it seems to me (though I know this
question is still up in the air) that woman is
less polygamous than man. To man sexuality
is in every way a lighter matter. To begin
with, he is more swiftly and more easily satisfied,
and, moreover, he has for himself few
consequences to fear. It is apparent that the
woman, more slow to respond, gives a great
depth in the response when it finally comes,
and the man who has the key to her must take
on an overwhelming value. Not only that, but
her nature connects the sexual act with child-bearing,
and this at once gives the whole matter
a more serious coloring. She may, in time,
disconnect the sexual act from that of child-bearing,
but it still remains more intense and
more serious than for a man. For this reason,
and especially if the man is the father of her
children, his value is such that she concentrates
on him with possessiveness, and this
tends toward monogamy.

However, woman's lack of economic independence
in the past, her great dependence on
man, may have been a large factor in the
problem; and, indeed, today it is not rare to
find women who claim the same freedom that
men have often claimed, and who are polyandrous
in their relationships.

It would seem, again, that the matter should
be relegated for solution to the individuals concerned;
and so far as the State is concerned
that either divorce should be made easy, or
extra-marital relations allowed for good cause.

As a matter of fact, with the attitude now
prevailing, there is much needless suffering. I
remember the case of a man who married the
girl of his choice when they were both very
young. He was a man absorbed in his business
to such an extent as not to be aware of any
sexual need. He was content to have a wife
who ran the home, was his companion in his
travels, and helped receive his guests. They
were very fond of each other, but had no sexual
relationship.

He told his wife everything. He discussed
his business and personal problems with her;
and everything went well until he became so
successful that a trust bought out his business.
As soon as he relaxed, he was aware that he
had not known the full joy of living. It was
not surprising that at that very time, he met
an independent and very attractive woman, and
that he fell madly in love with her. He was
quite intoxicated; life suddenly had become an
intense affair, full of glamour. He was irresistibly
drawn into an affair with her, and what
was more, he found her so delightful a person,
that it appeared to him that the relationship
would become permanent.

However, his old fondness for his wife was
unabated. Their many years together, their
complete candor with each other, had given
their relationship an enduring basis. He knew,
nevertheless, that if his wife got wind of his
new relationship, it would quite wreck her life.
She was puritanic, she believed in monogamy,
and she trusted him completely.

He attempted to evade the matter; to get
time off by giving business excuses; but she
soon became suspicious, and deeply troubled.
She knew he was hiding something, and feared
that it was exactly as it was.

Finally, in his dilemma, he came to an analyst.
After hearing the case, the analyst asked
him:

"Can you give up the other woman?"

The poor man was lost in his thoughts for
several minutes. Then he looked up, and spoke
slowly:

"No, I cannot. I should rather die."

Such tragedies are hidden in our present
system of inelastic monogamy. Had the wife
been brought up to a more sensible attitude,
or had either of them been taught the value of
sexuality in their youth, the tragedy might
have been avoided.

Certainly there is one thing that every couple
must take into consideration; and that is, that
the nature of either may undergo a change so
divergent from the other, as to cause the need
of a genuine readjustment. But if people take this
into consideration, they cannot but be less possessive
of one another; and, indeed, too great
concentration on each other is usually an evil
in marriage. For one thing, it often leads to
the feeling of staleness, and this in turn
either leads to artificial stimulants, to perversions
in the sexuality, or it may end in a break.

One of the essentials in most marriages is
occasional separation, and diverse interests and
relationships.

It will be seen then that from the standpoint
of common sense there are many reasons for
abnormal or unsuccessful sexuality besides
those that are due to deeper causes.


SOME THINGS TO DO

As I said in the beginning, it is time for
this dark cloud of ignorance and prejudice
and fear which we call the sexual problem, to
roll away. This can only come about by a
passionate realization of the principle of <i>difference</i>.
There are different kinds of people,
and it takes all kinds to make a world. We
cannot legislate a sexual code, whether the
law we make says, "Thou shalt not," or even
"Thou shalt," without violating the natures and
needs of large sections of the population. What
it comes down to, finally, is the individual. It
is he who must be studied, and it is he who
must find his own path.

Doubtless we shall not come to a true sexual
morality until our education includes the psychological
study of children. Until the child is
known, his hidden need is not apparent. If he
is an introvert, he should not be developed, as
he is today, particularly in this country, along
extraverted lines that are against his bent.
And if he is an extraverted sensational, we
cannot demand the same standard of him as
we could of an intuitive.

But even these type differences are insufficient
for our study. The child, after all, is
himself, and therefore in some ways different
from all others. His problem is always unique,
and must often be solved in new and unique
ways.

But since a change in our education which
would include the technic of modern psycho-*analysis,
is still far off; all that we can do in
the meantime is to spread the new knowledge
and new insight, so as to break down the old
prejudices, shames and fears, and put new
weapons into the hands of parents.

It is often difficult for parents to be candid
with their children concerning sexuality, especially
if their own attitude is vague or prejudiced.
Where the difficulty is too great, the
child should be turned over to a trusted friend
or teacher for enlightenment and guidance.

The first step in gaining the confidence of
the child is to give him a good attitude. Nothing
that he tells will be used against him;
there will be an attempt to understand all.
Besides that, he should be told that the problem
is practically universal, and the things that
he does, if at all, are not so much sins as bits
of childishness which may, in many cases, be
overcome.

When he has learned to speak freely, he may,
for instance, for the problem is general, say
that he practices auto-erotism. In this case, if
the child is still under the age of puberty, he
can be told that it may become a habit and
later on give him considerable trouble, and
that it is something he should attempt to overcome.
He is to report progress and should not
mind confessing a slip.

Most children are amenable to such treatment,
and overcome the habit. In a few cases,
this appears impossible, and some deeper cause
should be looked for. For instance, the child is
afraid of the dark, and uses auto-erotism to
quiet himself and soothe himself to sleep. In
that case, it would be better, of course, that
there was a light in his room, or someone remained
near him while he was trying to sleep.
Or it may be found that he has contracted the
habit as a substitution for some other gratification.
He may, for example, have a craving for
candy which a too-wise parent has entirely
tabooed for him. The cure is candy, by all
means.

It will often be found that the hidden cause
is as simple as the foregoing, and that the cure
is equally simple.

However, if the child is at puberty, if he is
adolescing, the problem is more difficult. In
many cases, if the boy is shown that such a
habit may make it difficult later on to be
normal sexually, he will break it, and by a
vigorous life avoid the problem. But there
are cases which refuse to yield to such common
sense, and either such a child needs an analysis,
or, as one of our noted psychologists thinks, he
may be permitted a limited expression until he
gets past the dangerous years. In such a case,
he must be warned against excess, to limiting
himself only to overwhelming desire.

This may seem like a poor way of handling
the matter; but unfortunately we have here
"not a theory, but a condition." Actually if
the boy is scared off, he may merely go on
practicing the habit in private and with no
restraint; or if he has become afraid of that,
may turn to homosexuality or seek out a woman
or a girl. Since this is not a mere child's
problem, since it is known that the run of men
who go off on long expeditions, or sea voyages,
or live in camps where there are no women,
resort to such practices, we can hardly expect
highly-sexed boys to observe a higher code.

The best thing, of course, would be a psycho-*analysis
at the hands of a perfectly competent
analyst. In that case a deep and hidden cause
might be found, such as those outlined in the
earlier part of this booklet. Where some boys
find a kind of outlet in athletics and in general
activities, such a boy might, for example,
find an outlet in creating some form of art.
He might be gifted as a painter or poet or
writer of fiction. In many cases, this is the
cure, until he is old enough to handle his
sexual problem in the way best suited to him.

When it comes to adults, there is very little
to be said. It would seem, for instance, as
though homosexuality ran counter to the best
tendencies of this age. Why this should be so
is not apparent. When Greece was at her
height, and that height was great, homosexuality
was held in high esteem and practiced,
along with normal sexuality, by the most enlightened
and developed men. The Greeks
practiced bi-sexuality and were a great nation,
with production of marvelous ideas and deathless art.
Yet today homosexuality runs against
the grain.

It may be, of course, that, in the end, no
man completes himself, except through woman.
The rise of woman has made her all the more
man's counterpart and complement. It is more
or less through woman that man is able to develop
his true individuality. And it may be
that man must honor the symbol of woman, as
well as the woman herself, by guiding his
desire toward her, and fulfilling himself also
physically through her love.

But, however true this may be, there is a
certain percentage of men, relatively small, who
seem more like the victims, than the willing
practicers, of homosexuality. The overwhelming
prejudice against them, the fact that they
are mocked or shunned like pariahs, the sense
they have that they cannot escape their doom,
the often effeminate traits which give them
away, make them as a rule pitiable objects.
It is true that sometimes they turn, as a driven
animal turns, and stand at bay, flaunting their
difference in the face of the world; but as a
rule it is the opposite.

Certainly, at least, such cases are for the
psycho-analyst's study, rather than for the
world's contempt. There are cases which, as I
have noted, can be cured; since they are psychological
in origin; but there are other cases
which still defy our insight.

But however reprehensible any given practice
may be, when it comes to adults there is
very little legislation that can be done. They
can, and will, and do follow individual paths.
One can only enlighten them on the meaning
of their acts. It is only in such excessive cases
as that of the seducer of young girls or the
sadist who harms others that the State can
step in and put a stop to it.

Another aspect of the problem which must be
included in this review is that of prostitution
and sexual disease. Is prostitution an evil, or
will its abolishment lead to more promiscuity?
That, too, is a difficult question, and by no
means answerable in a simple way. It does,
however, seem apparent that prostitution is an
evil, and that its gradual elimination is leading
to a greater promiscuity.

The obvious evil of prostitution is that, as a
rule, it brings sexuality down to its animal
basis, and thus destroys one of the beauties and
joys of life. Its further evil is that it turns
women again into chattels. And finally, of
course, it is a breeding ground for disease.

Naturally, a part of the education in sexuality
should include a knowledge of the diseases of
sex. This, in itself, especially among the young,
tends to curb the impulse toward promiscuity,
or at least to limit it to "petting" rather than
to full sexuality.

Nevertheless, we must admit the fact that
there is a growing promiscuity, along with a
change of attitude on the whole sexual problem.
Whether this is a passing phase, and due
to the revolt of youth against the old puritanism,
or whether the future will look upon sexuality
with new eyes, we cannot really know.
However, those who fear that the institution
of marriage will soon totter on its foundation
have not, I think, a very deep insight into man.
Human nature has much in it of restlessness,
of desire for change, and for experiment, but
as a rule it has more on the side of inertia,
with a deep craving for security and comfort.
Everything in man that loves to settle down
and be secure makes also for monogamous
marriage. That, for most people, is the only
safe center in the world, the cave or retreat,
the cavern of comfort. Beside that, of course,
so long as children are born into the world,
just so long will the run of people find much
of the meaning of life in their children's
growth and success. This is the powerful force
that keeps parents together, even where their
tastes and their very natures are incompatible.


LOVE

/P
The love of man for woman and woman for man,
It is not often love....

When the married couple kiss do they drink the music of each other's souls,
Are they moved to unspeakable reverence and adoration,
Would they renounce the world for the good of the beloved?

No, kisses are become to them a routine and a duty:
They find each other's bodies at midnight as they find breakfast in the morning:
And they fill the idle hours with games, shows, rides and liquor,
All to escape from one another....

I have thoughts of a love that might be:
Of a love that is the tender caress of forehead and cheeks with barely lingering hands:
Of a love that opens the skies at midnight for silent flight,
Flight far, with wings, in one another's arms....

These lovers shall mean as much to each other as they mean to themselves:
Their tenderness shall melt down irritations:
Their passion shall surcharge tasks with meaning....

Not alone shall the man find God in himself,
But in the beloved shall he find him, and in the sight of the beloved shall he adore him....
P/

/R
--<i>Songs for the New Age.</i>
R/

That still remains the ideal. To the couple
who have found such meaning in each other,
sexuality, as Havelock Ellis shows, becomes
the art of love, and the union is one of joy
and mystery, revealing the greatness of life.

The ideal of that sexuality remains also as
Havelock Ellis states it. As I have said
several times, he divides the sexual act into
the forepleasure and the act itself. The forepleasure
is a summarizing of many of those
things looked upon as infantile and perverse,
but which, as part of the art of love, become
means of endearment and arousal, and lead
finally to the complete consummation.

It is well, even for those who have difficulty
in the matter, to keep this ideal before them
as something finally capable of attainment.
For, while the various items of the forepleasure
may become ends in themselves, and this unavoidably
because of the lack of development or
the person's type, it should not be forgotten
that things undeveloped should finally be developed,
so that marriage may become more
complete and love deeper.


NOTE

The reader who wants to pursue the matter
further, would do well to read Havelock Ellis's
<i>Psychology of Sex</i>, particularly volume six,
which contains the famous chapter on The Art
of Love.

He may also gain much by reading Freud's
<i>General Introduction to Psycho-Analysis</i>.

Finally, if he is interested in going more
deeply into the psychology of Jung, the problems
of introvert vs. extravert, and the types,
he is referred to Little Blue Book No. 978 (<i>The
Psychology of Jung</i>), Little Blue Book No. 980
(<i>How I Psycho-Analyzed Myself</i>) and Little
Blue Book No. 985 (<i>A Psycho-Analysis of
America</i>).
